Chapter 5 - `DataFramesMeta.jl` (#288)
JuliaDataScience/JuliaDataScience: contents/dataframesmeta_transform.md

## Column Transformation {#sec:dataframesmeta_transform}

Whereas the `@select` macro variants performs column selection,
the `@transform` macro variants do _not_ perform any column selection.
It can either _overwrite_ existent columns or _create_ new columns that will be added to the right of our `DataFrame`.

For example, the previous operation on `:grade` can be invoked as a transformation with:

```jl
sco("""
# rtransform 1 # hide
@rtransform df :grade_100 = :grade * 10
"""; process=without_caption_label
)
```

As you can see, `@transform` does not perform column selection,
and the `:grade_100` column is created as a new column and added to the right of our `DataFrame`.

> DFM macros also support `begin ... end` statements.

Reviewer: Didn't we have this sentence before or is this about something else?

Author: No this is the first one. I will fix the following ones accordingly

> For example, suppose you are creating two columns in a `@transform` macro:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, suppose that you are creating two columns in a `@transform` macro:
```

```jl
sco("""
# rtransform 2 # hide
@rtransform df :grade_100 = :grade * 10 :grade_5 = :grade / 2
"""; process=without_caption_label
)
```

> It can be cumbersome and difficult to read the transformations performed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It can be cumbersome and difficult to read the performed transformations.
```

> To facilitate that, we can use a `begin ... end` statements and fill it with our transformation one per line:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To facilitate that, we can use `begin ... end` statements and put one transformation per line:
```

```jl
sco("""
# rtransform 3 # hide
@rtransform df begin
    :grade_100 = :grade * 10
    :grade_5 = :grade / 2
end
"""; process=without_caption_label
)
```

> This makes much easier to analyze code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
This sentence is already clear when reading the two sentences above plus the code and the output.
